{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15100\viewh21400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 Chapter 1: 
\f1\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_001: Let\'92s play a game called hackenbush. Two players will take turns removing line segments of their color. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \
Fig 1: Draw a game starting with the ground, then working up from ground. Make all connections to the ground blue. Make it be a single hackenbush game.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_002a: \cf2 When you remove a line segment, you also remove any line segments no longer connected to the ground.\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Narr_002b: They keep taking turns until someone no longer has any moves left on their turn. \cf2 That person loses. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 2: Put \'93You\'94 in blue on the upper left side of the screen and \'93Me\'94 in red on the upper right side of the screen.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_003: You can be blue and I\'92ll be red. You can go first.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 3: Starting with blue, take turns cutting line segments from fig 1, removing things no longer attached to the ground. Make sure to show that things with multiple connections to the ground remain if one of many attachments are removed. Remove until red has no more moves.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_004: Since it\'92s my turn and I have no more moves left, you win. Maybe you won because you went first. I\'92ll try going first this time in the same game and let\'92s see if that changes anything.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 4: Clear screen. Draw the same game as in fig 1. Starting with red, alternate removing lines using optimal strategies for each.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_005: That didn\'92t seem to change the outcome. Maybe I didn\'92t use the best strategy.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 5: Clear and draw game from fig 1 again.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_006: Can we definitely say who would win this game if you make the first move? How about if I make the first move?\
\
Narr_007: It looks like you will win regardless of who goes first. In order for me to win, you need to have no moves available on your turn. However this game plays out, you will always have a move available after I have gone. I will never be able to make a move that eliminates all of your options.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 6: Clear and draw the negative of fig 1\'92s game.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_008: Here is another game of hackenbush. Hackenbush doesn\'92t have a specific initial position, it is a collection of games that play with the same rules.\
\
Narr_009: This setup is similar to the first but your pieces and my pieces have been switched. I\'92ll be able to win this game no matter what. *pause*
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 7: Clear and draw a large-sized zero game that is not obviously zero.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_010: Who would win this game if you went first or if I went first? How could we figure that out? Maybe we should start with figuring out less complicated games of hackenbush. What\'92s the simplest game of hackenbush?
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 8: remove all but a few edges of game from fig 7.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_011: That\'92s much simpler.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 9: remove more.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_012: Simpler.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 10: remove all but one blue edge.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_013: That\'92s very simple, but is it the simplest?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 11: remove the last edge leaving only the ground.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_014: This is it. There is no simpler game of hackenbush than this. I agree that this seems like a really boring game, but if we\'92re going to figure out how to win at all games of hackenbush, we have to start here. I\'92ll let you go first.\
\
Narr_015: You have no moves to make, so I win! Hardly seems fair. Ok, I\'92ll go first this time.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 12: clear and draw only the ground.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_016: Since I have no moves to make, you win! Whoever goes first in this game loses. Let\'92s call this game zero.\
\
Narr_017: You have zero moves and I have zero moves. Whoever goes first loses since they can\'92t make a move. The zero game.\
\
Narr_018: I don\'92t think we can analyze this game any further, so let\'92s make it the tiniest bit more complicated.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 13: clear and draw the ground first, then add one blue line.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_019: This is one of the two simplest games after the zero game. If you go first, you remove the one blue edge leaving nothing, so when it\'92s my turn, I have no moves and lose.\
\
Narr_020: If I go first, there are no red edges, so I have no moves and I lose. Regardless of who starts, I lose.\
\
Narr_021: Unlike the zero game, where whoever goes first loses, you win this game regardless of who starts. Let\'92s call this game and any other game where you always win positive.\
\
Narr_022: A positive game is one where the blue player wins regardless of who goes first.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 14: clear and draw the ground first, then add one red line.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_023: This is a game I can win no matter what. If games you can always win are positive, then we should call games I can always win negative.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 15: draw 8 or so simple games each in its own box, a mix of zero games, positive games and negative games. Use some games that are the inverse of others.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_024: Assuming both players are playing to win and use optimal strategies, each of these games are either equal to zero, meaning whoever goes first loses, positive, meaning you\'92ll always win, or negative, meaning I\'92ll always win.\
\
Narr_025: Let\'92s see if you can figure out which games are equal to zero, positive, or negative.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 16: wait 5 seconds and then reveal what each game is with \'93positive\'94 in blue on the left, \'930\'94 in white over the center of the game, or \'93red\'94 on the right.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_026: Did you notice that some of the pairs of games are the same, but with our moves switched?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 17: select a pair and expand, showing just those two.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_027: These two games are exactly the same, except the red and blue edges are switched. Not only are the edges the opposite of each other, but so is the outcome. The opposite of this negative game is positive, and the opposite of this positive game is negative. Is that always true of any negative game or any positive game?\
\
Narr_028: That switching the moves red and blue can make results in positive games becoming negative and negative games becoming positive? Yes! This is always true!\
\
Narr_029: If you have a game that blue can always win, then replacing every blue edge with red and every red edge with blue results in a game red can always win. The strategy that blue used to win that initial game is the strategy red would use to win the opposite game.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 18: an animation of 2 opposite games with opposite moves occurring simultaneously.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_030: By calling games \'930\'94, \'93negative\'94, and \'93positive\'94, I\'92ve been suggesting that games of hackenbush are like numbers. Let\'92s see what happens if we follow that idea.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 19: clear screen and make the game with one blue line.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_031: You will always win this game, so it\'92s positive. If you went first, you would make one move, then the game would be over, so let\'92s call this game \'931\'94.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 20: clear screen and make the game with one red line.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_032: Similarly, I will always win this game, so it\'92s negative. Let\'92s call this game \'93-1\'94. What happens if we have a \'931\'94 and a \'93-1\'94.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 21: add a single blue line next to the red line.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_033: Who wins this game if you go first? You cross off your line, then I cross off mine, then you have no moves left. I win.\
\
Narr_034: Who wins if I go first? I cross off my line, then you cross off yours, then I can\'92t move. You win.\
\
Narr_035: Whoever goes first loses. This is a zero game. If we take a \'931\'94 and a \'93-1\'94, we have a zero. Just like with numbers.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 22: add a blue line to the top of a blue line and a red line to the top of a red line.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_036: If we say that the stack of two blue lines is a \'932\'94 and the stack of 2 red lines is a \'93-2\'94, then we can ask who wins this game? It makes sense for whoever goes first to take their top line segment since taking the bottom would make them lose quicker. Whoever goes next would also take their top segment.\
\
Narr_037: We\'92re now at the point we were at in the last example where whoever goes first loses. In the game of \'932\'94 and \'93-2\'94, whoever goes first loses. \'932\'94 and \'93-2\'94 is \'930\'94. We can generalize this to any game and its opposite.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Fig 23: draw a big, non trivial game, then copy and reverse it. Start playing while the next section is read.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_038: Whoever goes first makes a move, and the second player makes the opposite move. They repeat this over and over and until the second player makes the last move, leaving nothing left for the other player. Any game and its opposite played together is 0.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_039: So far, I\'92ve avoided using terms like \'93equals,\'94 \'93addition,\'94 \'93subtraction,\'94 \'93less than,\'94 and \'93greater than.\'94 Since we\'92re going to follow the idea that games of hackenbush can be numbers, let\'92s start building on our intuition around these terms. We\'92re going to start working some algebra into the mix.\
\
Narr_040: What does it mean to add two games of hackenbush?
\f1\fs24  
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 We have already added two games of hackenbush. We choose a game in which to make a move, and then we make a single move there.\
\
Fig 24: draw two separate games of hackenbush in two boxes, then remove the boxes, joining the ground.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Narr_041: Then the other player does the same. Two games of hackenbush added together is just a bigger game of hackenbush. Game addition will become more clear when we\'92re playing different types of games together. Whenever we want to add any number of games of hackenbush together, we just play the larger game that includes all of them.\
\
Unrecorded:\
\
When we called hackenbush games the names of \'93zero,\'94 \'93positive,\'94 and \'93negative,\'94 we implied that there was an order to them. We could say that a positive game was greater than a zero game, and that a zero game was greater than a negative game, but we couldn\'92t compare two positive games to each other or two negative games to each other.\
\
Now we can. Let\'92s say we have two positive games, games that the left player will always win. We\'92ll call them G and H. How do we decide whether they are equal, or whether one of them is \'93more positive\'94?\
\
Just like numbers like 3 and 51/17, games can look different but be equal.\
\
We can use a bit of algebra to get us our answer. If game G is equal to game H, then taking game H away from G should give us a zero game. We haven\'92t talked about taking a game away yet, but we already know how to do this with addition and inverting a game.\
\
Just like how five minus five is equivalent to five plus negative five, G minus H is equivalent to G plus the inverse of of H. Recall that the definition of a zero game is that whoever goes first loses. If whoever goes first in the bigger game of G + -H loses, then G + -H equal 0. If that\'92s true, then our original games of G and H are equal!\
\
We expect three things from equality, so we\'92ll need to test them all to make sure our new definition of equality of games behaves how we want it to. Those three things are: reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity.\
\
First up is reflexivity. We have to show that all games of hackenbush are equal to themselves.
\f1\fs24 \
}